Hey there everyone and welcome
to the Python course on Udemy.
So in this video or in this
section, we are starting
comprehensions in Python.
Now here's a two very interesting
thing about comprehensions.
First of all, almost
everything that we are going to do
with the comprehensions can be done
with the loops as well.
Comprehensions are just a stylized
way of writing Python code.
So if we can do all of these
things, why we are using
comprehensions because sometimes
they make our life little
easier, they are a shorter way
of writing the code and
sometimes they feel like writing
just English statement and one
statement can do the whole job.
Yes, it can be done with the loops
as well, but this is more
stylized way so more people
in the production actually uses it.
And if you really want to master
the comprehensions in Python,
you have to Var this section, you
have to go through with this.
I have made sure that I keep
the videos bite sized so that
you can actually learn and focus on
just one task or one comprehension
at the one time.
There are multiple of them which
we are going to talk about then.
The second most important part about
the comprehension is that people
don't like it in the very first go.
There are only handful of people
who actually appreciate
the importance and the syntax
of comprehensions in the first go.
Most of people who want to learn
Python, they just learn till
the loops and functions and say I
want to skip the comprehensions.
Not really.
For me it's little difficult.
I agree it is little
difficult, but you have
to go through with this.
This is really important
part and you're going to see
so many production code
with the comprehension.
But the most important question,
what is comprehension?
So for this we will do this entire
video with just the comprehensions.
I'm going to write some keywords
will help you to understand
this and all the syntax.
And from the later on video,
the next video onwards, we are going
to study them one by one.
So what are comprehensions?
A very good question that you have
asked since you are in this section.
So comprehensions are a way of,
are a concise way of creating lists,
sets, dictionaries or generators in
Python using a single line of code.
Your entire focus should be
on using a single line of code.
So yes, just like the loops, we
don't keep on creating this,
we just write a simple one line
and it can do a lot of logical
things for you as well.
So the big question that we have is
where, they, where are they used?
I'll write that patiently
where they are used in real Life.
And yes, that's a good question.
So where they are used
in the real life, are they even
used in the real life?
And the answer is yes, very much.
They are used quite a lot.
The most common place that
where you're going to see is
through filtering the items.
So filter item.
This is where you're going
to see them being used.
What items you want to filter.
Maybe you want to pick all
the hot teas from a menu.
the iced T from the menu.
So in that filtering you can do
the job in just one line and you
can also see them in transforming
some of the objects as well.
So transform what kind
of transforming the item?
You might want to say I want
to convert all the pricing
from INR to USD.
I can do that all in one line
using the comprehensions.
There are more things.
Maybe I want to create a new,
create a new collection.
I can do that in variety
of ways, but maybe I want to map
the tea names to the pricing.
So I want to make a fresh
collection out of it.
So in that case, yes,
comprehensions are super useful.
And another thing is sometimes you
want to flatten nested structure.
So maybe there is you want to extract
the ingredients out of a T recipe.
It's nested quite a lot
in the objects and dictionaries
and key value pairs.
So if you want to flatten a nested
structure they can be used.
So again, these are some
of the common out of top
of the head examples that I
could have figured out.
But I'm pretty sure there
are hundreds of other.
But this gives you a clear picture
that yes, actually if I go
ahead and use them in the real life
they will actually make sense.
So look at this.
We have drawn a pretty good
diagram of them as well.
So this is the most common one.
So if they have this one and we
can do the same task with
the loops as well, what purpose
they might serve do they serve?
And that's also a good question
that if we know them like this, what
purpose they actually serve?
The most important purpose, that
you're going to see it everywhere.
It's actually a cleaner code.
I would not say easiest of the code
to understand, but comparatively
to the loops and other things
it's rather cleaner and in some
of the cases actually faster.
So faster execution is also the way
you use less memory.
You can do all of the things.
It's a functional style code as well.
But I would give these two things
most of the important parts.
First of all It's a cleaner code.
Not the easiest one
to understand, but it's cleaner one.
Once you get in the habit,
you'll realize, this one
is actually much better.
And final and last thing that
I would like to discuss is,
the types of comprehensions.
What are the type of comprehensions
that wrote a bad spelling?
So what are the types of,
comprehensions that we have?
Great question you might have asked.
Actually we have a few of them.
Some of them you have already
seen not the comprehensions
but the data structure types.
So I'll just list them.
The first one is the list.
The second one that we have is set.
Remember we saw the set.
Yeah, we discussed the math
part of it as well.
The next one is dictionary
and the last one
is actually generator.
You might be asking what
is this generator?
We haven't studied them.
Yes, you are correct.
It's not a data type.
It's a whole new structure in itself.
We'll study about them.
So the first one is list.
The second one is set.
The third one is dictionary.
And the last one is generator,
which is very interesting.
Again, we'll spend some good amount
of time in the generator as well.
First we'll see a brief look
in here, then we'll go through
with them in the detail.
So in the next video we'll
directly pick up the list
comprehension and we'll see that,
okay, this is how the list
comprehension looks like.
The basic structure will first study
the theory part of it and then
we'll go into the code part of it.
It will be fun.
Don't you worry.
You will get enough of,
the confidence that.
Okay, now I can write this within
just one example, you'll find
immense confidence that I
can write the comprehensions.
That is it.
Let's catch up quickly
in the next video.